---
layout: project
type: project
image: img/NGC660Square.png
title: "NGC 660 Star Formation Rates"
date: 2019
published: true
labels:
  - Lisp
  - GitHub
summary: "An Astrophysics project involving a particular colliding galaxy."
---

When it comes to galactic physics, one of the phenomena that still hasn't had all the creases 
flattened is how exactly are stars formed. In the case of NGC 660, an odd yet stunning polar ring galaxy, 
the collision of two galaxies and their spiral limbs serves as a genesis for a multitude of new stars 
that ranges in the hundreds of millions. This project aimed to study the exact calculation of new stars 
formed and in particular what areas this would occur in. 

<hr>

<pre>

In combined effore with the UH-88 telescope, the Canada-France-Hawaii-Telescope (CFHT) saught to 
find a way to understand galaxy kinematics and the after effects of galactic collisions. For my part,
I looked into the star formation rates associated with such an event. As people wihthin the astromical field know,
objects such as dust and material can collect in such areas of space until so much has been accumulated that 
protostars are formed. In the situation of galaxy collisions, much of said dust and material is flowing around
giving way for new stars to be born. 

  As a side note, the peculiar shape of NGC comes from the fact that the two galaxies that collided, approached
  eachother from orthogonal angles such that it looks as though they are crossing into eachothers, centered at
  both of their supermassive black holes. 
  
</pre>

<hr>

Source: <a href="https://github.com/jogarces/ics-313-text-game"><i class="large github icon "></i>jogarces/ics-313-text-game</a>
